The Project Gutenberg eBook of Jakie's Christmas
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Jakie's Christmas

Author: Lida B. Robertson

Release date: December 22, 2025 [eBook #77524]

Language: English

Original publication: Boston: The Christopher Publishing House, 1927

Credits: Susan E., David E. Brown, Andrew Butchers, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JAKIE'S CHRISTMAS ***




JAKIE’S CHRISTMAS


[Illustration: JAKIE AS FAT OLD SANTA CLAUS]




  JAKIE’S CHRISTMAS

  BY
  LIDA B. ROBERTSON

  Author of the prize winning short-stories:
  “How The Bad Boy Was Won”; “Women in The
  Farm Home”; and “How to Rule a Husband.”

  [Illustration]

  The Christopher Publishing House
  Boston, U. S. A.




Copyright 1927

BY THE CHRISTOPHER PUBLISHING HOUSE

[Illustration: MADE IN AMERICA]




  TO THOSE WHO ARE KIND;

  “FOR AS A LITTLE CANDLE SHINES IN THE DARKNESS
  SO IS THE GOOD DEED IN A NAUGHTY WORLD”




Jakie’s Christmas




JAKIE HUNTING FOR SANTA CLAUS


Christmas was near. Pictures of laughing, fat, jolly, old Christmas
Santa Claus filled the daily papers, filled the magazines. In all of
the store-windows were beautiful Christmas decorations and full of toys.

In the pictures Santa Claus’ beard hung down from his chin as white as
cotton, and his long white bushy hair peeped from under his cap.

Jakie, a happy, joyous, little country boy lived miles from town
in a log-cabin in the backwoods with his Mamsy, as he called his
grandmother. Just the two lived together as Jakie’s father and mother
were dead, and his grandfather too. They lived in the very same log
house which his father built, as a pioneer; he cleared away the wild
woods when Alabama was new, and settled the land and built a farm home.
All of the home-folks were dead; just Mamsy and little Jakie left.
Mamsy owned a cow and some pigs. She raised turkeys and chickens to
sell. But the foxes had crept out of the bushes and devoured the young
turkeys; hawks had caught the young chickens and carried them away to
eat. Mamsy had done her very level best but she was old and she was
poor. Sorrowfully she had to tell Jakie not to look for Christmas Santa
Claus,--not to hang up his stocking, that they were too poor this year.

It was a clear day, sunshiny and beautiful. Jakie was out in the
hickory grove in front of their cabin, kicking the brown leaves that
lay on the ground like a carpet, first with one foot then with the
other. Every day he had gathered the fallen nuts from under the trees,
but was hoping to find some still hiding under the leaves.

A country wagon came bumping and rumbling along the rough country
road in front of Jakie’s house. Folks did not pass his home often. He
stopped kicking the leaves to gaze at the passing wagon. A newspaper
blew out of the wagon, fluttered around and around, by the wind, and
fell to the ground in the middle of the road, without the farmer
noticing or missing it. Jakie dashed out to the road, snatched the paper
up, and raced after the farmer and his wagon, yelling as loud as his
voice could, over the rattling, bumping noise of the wagon:

“Mister! Mister! Mister! Mister!”

The farmer heard him, grunted “waw” to his horse and looked backward.
Jakie was following him with something in his hand. He waited until
Jakie overtook him panting and out of breath and held the paper, above
his head, as high as his short arm could reach, to the farmer. The
farmer looked down at the paper a minute while Jakie explained, panting:

“Here’s your newspaper the wind blew out your wagon.”

The man answered:

“It’s nothing! It’s just a paper saying some store in town is giving
away presents to children,--you can have it. I don’t want it.”

The farmer chuckled to his horse and drove on down the road, leaving
Jakie standing still, in the middle of the road, staring at the paper
in wonder. There was big, fat, jolly, old Christmas Santa Claus with a
huge pack of toys on his back, with both hands beckoning to children to
come to him and get a present. One outstretched hand held a toy-train,
the other a very large doll. Little girls and big girls, little boys
and big boys were racing, running, hurrying, scurrying to him. Nurses
with babies in go-carts were running to him, and mamas with babies in
their arms were running to him,--all to receive gifts. Jakie pointed
his forefinger at them trying to count them but they were too many.
Mamsy had told him they were too poor, not to look for Christmas Santa
Claus at their house way out in the backwoods.

Here was Santa Claus in town giving things away to children, giving
toy-trains to boys, and big dolls to girls.

His heart fluttered faster, joy and hope flashed into his eager eyes as
he continued to gaze at the picture. He would run and show the picture
to Mamsy and beg her to take him to town to Christmas Santa Claus and
get a present too. His feet dashed back toward the house; he held the
corner of the paper, which fluttered behind him by the wind like a
kite-tail to a kite.

He yelled every step “Mamsy! Mamsy! Mamsy!”

She heard his excited yells and it scared her. She rushed to the door,
to meet him. He held the paper up waving it over his head. He reached
the door:

“Look Mamsy! here’s Christmas Santa Claus in town giving away things to
all the children--take me to him and get one!”

He held the paper wide open with both hands for Mamsy to see for
herself, what he said was true. Mamsy looked at it intently then shook
her head in no, saying:

“We can’t go! We got nothing to ride and it’s too far to walk.”

Mamsy was grown up. She had forgotten how, as a little child, Christmas
thrilled her. She had no way to ride to town, and no money to buy
Christmas things and no way to take Jakie. Jakie did not beg nor argue
with Mamsy to go. When she said no she meant it. It was useless. His
hope sank in very keen disappointment. The eager look of joy vanished
from his face. He sat down dolefully upon the front step, holding the
paper open before his eyes to gaze at happy children racing with each
other to get to Christmas Santa Claus. He wished he was one of them,
but he could not go. Two big tears rolled down his cheeks and fell on
the paper making two wet spots.

Two more big tears rolled down his cheeks and he wiped them off with
his sleeve. The sun went down. The twilight grew too dim for him to see
the picture. He arose and went inside. Mamsy was cooking their supper
in the oven of the open fire-place. Out of Mamsy’s way to the left of
the popping, blazing, cheery wood fire-light he spread his paper wide
open on the floor. He stretched himself full length on the floor beside
the open paper; his elbows on the floor and his chin resting in his
uplifted open palms. The bright fire-light shone upon his face, a very,
sober, wistful little face gazing at the children scampering, racing
and running toward Christmas Santa Claus--wishing he was one of them.
Mamsy called him to supper, he arose folded the paper like a boy folds
one, cranksided, and laid it in his mother’s trunk, that was his own
now, and in which he kept his “keeps.” He ate his bread and milk, and
slipped off to bed, with his clothes on, without Mamsy’s noticing it.
He shut his eyes very tight, but he did not fall asleep. He was arguing
to himself in the darkness, for Mamsy had come to bed and was asleep,
“Mamsy is got old feets, but my feets is new. She can’t walk to town,
but I can! I is big enough to go by my own self and get me and Mamsy a
present from Christmas Santa Claus.” His eyes closed; he fell asleep
dreaming of going to see Santa Claus.

Next morning the room was dark, but the roosters were flapping their
wings and crowing for the day break; crowing to folks to awaken them,
and tell them the day was coming to get up and work, get up and be
smart. Jakie’s eyes flew wide open. Instead of seeing Santa Claus, as
in his happy dream, the room was dark,--and Mamsy was snoring. He was
disappointed. In his sleep Santa Claus had given him a present, given
him a toy-train, and he was the happiest little boy in the world, he
thought. His disappointment made him argue again:

“I’m big enough to go to Christmas Santa Claus by my own self, and get
me and Mamsy a present.” He could stand it no longer.

[Illustration: JAKIE TRUDGING ALONG ALONE, AFOOT]

Slowly he thrust one bare-foot from under the cover, then the other
foot, lowering them to the floor. He let himself downward upon his
“all-fours” to the floor and crawled as softly as a cat to the back
door of the cabin home. One hinge was off of the door and it sagged
at the bottom, just a wide enough hole, for him to squeeze through,
without awakening Mamsy. He cautiously eased himself through to the
out-of-doors. He halted on the step. He bent his listening ear down to
the gap; Mamsy was still snoring. He crawled down the steps, to the
ground. He sneaked away, his heart beating very fast lest a broken twig
and rustling leaves tell on him, and awaken Mamsy and she call him
back. Joy urged him onward, unafraid, in the dark through the grove of
hickory trees to the rough country road. The stars twinkled down upon
a lonely little boy, bravely, trudging along the rough country road,
ragged, bare-foot, alone, and afoot! His bare-feet trod on rough places
and pebbles, but onward he hurried not seeming to mind them. He was too
happy to know that he was hungry. This joyous, little, Christmas-tramp
was bent on finding Christmas Santa Claus, to obtain a Christmas gift
for himself and for Mamsy, and had slipped off without eating any
breakfast. The dim light in the east told him the sun was coming up
soon, so he could see better how to travel. He sat down on the side of
the road to rest, a moment, hoping somebody might come along and let
him ride, “give him a lift,” they call it in the country. He knew not
how far he had come nor how far he had to go to get to Santa Claus;
he was too happy to know or care! He arose and walked manfully on.
He heard a faint-rumbling noise through the woods afar down the road
behind him. He stopped. He listened! It was a wagon coming down the
road toward him. He stood on the side of the road and waited for it.
When it reached him he looked up timidly into the kind farmer’s face,
driving the wagon and team, asking:

“Mister can I ride on your wood to town?”

The farmer was hauling oak wood to town to sell. He looked at Jakie,
such a little fellow alone and wondered. He called out “climb in!”

Jakie eagerly stuck one bare-foot on a spoke of the wheel, then poked
the other bare-foot upon a higher up spoke and scrambled and clutched
at the wheel tire, to climb up into the wagon body. The man watched
Jakie’s nimble pluck and bent downward holding his hand down to him to
assist him. He invited him to sit beside him on the spring seat instead
of riding on the sticks of rough wood.

“Where are you going little fellow?” the man asked Jakie after he
twisted and fidgeted himself comfortably in his seat with his dirty
bare-feet dangling downward, too short to reach the bottom of the wagon.

“I is going to town to find Christmas Santa Claus,” Jakie answered
proudly, looking up into the kind man’s face for him to agree with him
that he was big enough. But the man said:

“You are a very little boy to be going to town all by yourself.”

“I is big enouf!” Jakie insisted, bravely. Then he explained: “Mamsy’s
feets is old, she can’t walk so far and we is got nothin’ to ride in.”
His eyes glistered joyously!

“Christmas Santa Claus is in town giving way things to children. Mamsy
say we is too poor for him to come to us house. I is going to hunt him
and get me and Mamsy a present.”

The kind man looked at the holes in Jakie’s clothes, looked at
his happy face, looked at his soiled bare-feet, without shoes, in
winter-time, and he did not wonder that he wanted a Christmas present
for himself and for Mamsy. He ran his hand down into his breeches
pocket and drew out some change. With a merry twinkle in his eyes he
said:

“Hold up your hands!”

Up went both of Jakie’s hands, held close together like children play
thimble. The man dropped five nickels, one by one into Jakie’s hands,
making him count them one by one. Jakie stared at his hands full of
money. He felt very rich. He had had once in a while one nickel, all
his own, to buy things at the cross-roads country store, to buy an
apple, an orange, or candy. But never before had a handful of nickels
all his own. The man asked him:

“What are you going to buy with your money?”

“Bananas!” exclaimed Jakie, his beaming smile radiantly happy that he
could buy, “heaps of em,” he said.

Happiness showed in the man’s smiling face at making a child so happy,
he said:

“I got ahead of your Christmas Santa Claus. I gave you a present first.”

Jakie clutched his money very tight, two nickles in one fist and three
in the other.

“Thanky Mister, you is a good man--what’s you name?”

“My name is Sam Foster,” the man told him, then said, “Now tell me your
name and where you live.”

“I is named Jakie Barnett, Mamsy and me lives to Clear Creek way back
yonder.”

It seemed to Jakie that he had come miles and miles, but it was only
two miles he had come. It was a long way to his small feet that he had
walked and he was so glad now to be riding. He told the man he had a
billy goat that he hitched to the wooden wheels for a wagon; told about
his hickory nuts, and about their cow, as they rode along together
to town. The man drove many streets out of his way to the business
street of stores, which sold toys, and christmas trees, everything
to make children happy! He told Jakie to keep straight on and on and
he would see the stores. Jakie nimbly jumped down off the wagon. The
man held his money for him, until he leaped to the ground and held
his faded cap with both hands for the man to drop his money into it.
He crammed the money into his breeches pocket, waved good-bye to Mr.
Foster, who carefully instructed him to wait at the store that had a
picture horse in the window,--after Christmas Santa Claus gave him
his present, and he would take him back home. The man drove away in
another direction to deliver his wood, and Jakie ran down the street
toward the stores. He was afraid to wait, Christmas Santa Claus might
give away all those presents to those children running to him, before
he got there. He passed a fruit-stand. A big bunch of bananas dangled
over-head. He halted. He bought half-dozen. The man let him sit on an
empty-fruit-basket turned bottom upwards! Jakie clambered on it and
crossed one foot on his knee to make “a lap” to hold his bananas. He
peeled two, holding one in each hand and stuffed his mouth entirely
too full for digestion. But he was hungry; he had left home without
any breakfast, and he was in a hurry! He ran onward and saw crowds and
crowds of people on both sides of the street. He stared at the folks
he saw expecting to find big, fat, jolly old, Christmas Santa Claus,
somewhere in the crowds on the side-walk. The picture showed him on the
street and the children rushing to him. On and on he walked looking
eagerly this way and that way. He would recognize him in a minute, from
his picture. He stopped before shop-windows to stare at the wonderful
toys, trains, flying machines, bicycles, everything for boys,--and he
wished he had every one of them. He was growing tired, he was weary,
his little heart was feeling down cast. He stopped and asked some boys
“Where’s Christmas Santa Claus?” They laughed at him, and winked at
each other saying: “Go ahead he’s down the street!”

Jakie resolutely trudged on down the street. He spied some small Santa
Clauses in the show windows, but no live Santa Claus. He felt too shy
to ask again where to find him,--boys had laughed at him!

[Illustration: JAKIE WITH A BANANA IN EACH HAND]

The wind began to blow quite cold. He heard people on the street say
“A norther,” a blizzard, was coming. He never heard of a blizzard, that
it was a bitter-cold north wind which froze everything. He was getting
very tired, and very unhappy. He had walked and walked such a long
time, and could not find Christmas Santa Claus. He wondered if he were
too late and Santa Claus had given away all of his presents, he had in
his pack, to the children and had gone home.

The cold wind was blowing against his bare-feet, and bare arms and
hands, and through the holes in his breeches legs. He thrust his hands
into his pockets to warm them, but his bare-feet were just as cold. He
began to shiver.

His teeth began to chatter. He was very tired, but he ran along, as
fast as he could in a crowded street, to get warm. He was very, very
tired and was getting colder instead of warmer. His toes smarted, his
hands hurt, his ears tingled, he ached all over. He was very hungry, he
was very lonely, he was very miserable, he was very cold, and had not
yet found Christmas Santa Claus on the street. Two big tears dropped
upon his cheeks; he wiped them off with his banana-stained hands. He
was shivering violently, he was lost, he was freezing and did not know
it. He spied an open door leading to an upstairs. He went in, to get
behind the door out of the cold wind, to wait and get warmer. But the
wind blew louder and colder and whistled around the door upon him,
crouched close up in the corner.

He began to sob, he was lost and alone in a city. He did not know where
he was. He knew not where the store was with the pretty picture of a
horse, so he could go there and let Mr. Foster take him home to Mamsy.
He could not walk home. He sobbed louder, but none of the hurrying
people passing by heard him. But the eyes of Him who is upon the
sparrow was upon little Jakie behind that door, and sent a beautiful
friend to him. A lovely girl in a long warm cloak, with a purse full of
Christmas money to buy love-gifts for her home-folks and friends, came
tripping down the street right by the door where poor, cold, miserable
little Jakie was behind the door. She heard a child’s sobs and stopped
to locate them. They came from behind the open door. She stepped inside
and peeped behind it, and found Jakie crying and freezing.

“You poor little boy!” she exclaimed. “What are you doing here?” Jakie
heard her kind voice and stared at her through his tears, and sobbed,
“I is huntin’ for Santa Claus, and can’t--can’t find him nowhere!” The
fair young girl’s face beamed upon him tenderly and her eyes twinkled
merrily as she asked him:

“Won’t I do just as well as Santa Claus?” Jakie looked up into her
lovely face and wondered if she was an angel sent to him like Mamsy
said came to the shepherds one night. Again the fair young girl asked:
“Won’t I do just as well as Santa Claus?” She held out her hand to him.
He explained, “Santa Claus was in a paper and children was running to
him to git presents and I wanted him to give me one. Does you know him?
Does you know where he is? I come by myself to find him. I is hunted
everywhere for him. I is Mamsy’s little Jakie. She can’t walk so far,
we got nothing to ride in. I come my own self to hunt him.”

Frances Bestor asked Jakie again, extending her gloved hand toward him:
“Won’t I do as well as Santa Claus? Come with me and you shall have a
present.”

[Illustration: JAKIE CRYING AND FREEZING]

Jakie placed his soiled hand into her dainty gloved hand. She felt the
cold of his little hand through her glove. She led him through the
crowded street as fast as they could push their way. People stared at
a richly dressed, elegant girl, hurrying along the street leading by
the hand a ragged, bare-foot child. But Frances’ heart was dancing over
the real Christmas fun she was going to have with Jakie. She pulled
him in front of her in the partition of a revolving door of a big
department store. Jakie was astonished and dumb. He had never seen a
revolving door. He stared as if in a bewildered dream at the beautiful
store inside. He had never seen anything so beautiful. The victrola was
playing Christmas-carols. Gay Christmas bells hung everywhere in the
store. Red and green tissue-paper ribbons hung over-head like beautiful
tangled spider-webs. It seemed to Jakie that he had suddenly stepped
into heaven. He stared about, dazed, as Frances led him through the
store to the boy’s clothing department. She stopped by a radiator to
get him warm. She stood him close to it, holding his shivering little
hands, in hers, to the pipes to warm them. When he stopped shivering
she left him standing there to get thoroughly warm. She whispered to
the clerk to take him to the dressing room and dress him up in all
the things a little boy needs. She picked out a suit of clothes and
everything for a little boy’s outfit. She came back to him and taking
his hand in hers said as he looked up into her face:

“Go with this young man and he will dress you up so you won’t be so
cold.” Jakie followed the clerk to the dressing room. Frances walked
away toward the front of the store to wait for him.

“Mister is dis heaven where my dead mama went to?” he asked.

“Not exactly; this is a store dressed up for Christmas to sell things
to people, for little boys.”

A sober, troubled look came into Jakie’s face and he timidly explained:

“Mister, I is got no money to buy things. I is got two nickels to take
to my Mamsy.”

“You are not buying them,” laughed the clerk. “That pretty young lady
who brought you in here is your Santa Claus.”

Jakie stared, astonished. He had been hunting for a big, fat, old man
with long white beard and long white hair, and the clerk called that
beautiful girl Santa Claus. He was deeply bothered. He asked eagerly
“Is dis Santa Claus’ store?”

The man laughed and shook his head, saying, “No, but she is your Santa
Claus giving you all these fine clothes, I am going to put on you....”
Jakie then argued to himself:

“Christmas Santa Claus must wear dresses in daytime to keep from
scaring children.”

The clerk helped him to remove his ragged clothes, wash his face, wash
his hands and wash his feet. He helped Jakie pull on a warm white union
suit first. Jakie stared in the mirror at himself all in white. He did
not recognize himself. He asked bewildered:

“Is dis me, Mister?”

The clerk smiled at Jakie’s change in looks even from his ragged
breeches to white unions and was greatly amused at his asking “is it
me.” He answered, “Yes, it is you. Don’t you know yourself?”

“I is never had no store-clothes in all my life,” Jakie explained,
admiring himself in the mirror. He started off to go back to Frances
with only his white unions on.

“Hold on!” exclaimed the clerk, “that is your underwear! Here is your
fine suit, she picked out for you,” holding up a boy’s pretty grey
suit, and cap to match.

Jakie’s eyes opened wider than ever in astonishment. The clerk helped
him to dress, helped him to put on the new suit, draw on pretty grey
socks on his bare-feet, lace up new shoes, comb his hair, and fit a cap
to his head. Now Jakie looked like a full-fledged city boy, handsome
and up-to-date. He twisted and turned before the looking glass. The
clerk watched him. Jakie said:

“Don’t look-y like me--Don’t seem like me! Is it me, sure ’nouf?”

The clerk burst into a merry laugh, assuring him:

“It’s you sure enough. Now go thank your Christmas Santa Claus. She
gave you all these nice things.”

Jakie hesitated a moment then said:

“Mister, it don’t seem like me. I just wears what folks give me, and
what Mamsy makes.”

[Illustration: “DON’T LOOK LIKE ME.”]

“It’s sure enough you,” the clerk re-assured him, and handed him a
bundle tied up neatly, which contained his old clothes, saying again:

“Now go thank your Christmas Santa Claus.”

Jakie marched toward Frances feeling like a king in his new clothes.
She did not know him. She thought he was a city boy. He stopped in
front of her, taking off his cap as a little gentleman. His clean,
handsome face, and happy beaming eyes looked straight at her. He asked
shyly.

“Is you Christmas Santa Claus?” She recognized him and laughed:

“Oh no! Santa Claus is a man, old, big and fat.”

“That man say you is!” insisted Jakie pointing back toward the clerk.
“Is you Miss Christmas Santa Claus?”

“No indeed! little man,” answered Frances, laying her hand on his
shoulder and patting him affectionately. “I am no Santa Claus at all.
I love Christmas, and I love little boys like you. You came to town
hunting for Santa Claus you saw in a picture. You could not find him.
You said I would do. Christmas is Jesus’ birthday and He sent me to act
Santa Claus to you. You needed a big friend when you were lonely, cold,
and lost behind that door. Jesus sent me to find you. He sent me to be
your big friend, and sent you to be my little friend.”

He grabbed her hand and kissed it. Then asked:

“If you isn’t Christmas Santa Claus is you an angel what Mamsy say came
to find the shepherds in the dark?”

Frances blushed. Jakie’s compliment flushed her cheeks, a rosy pink.
The clerk came to hand her the bill for the suit and outfit, and heard
Jakie’s inquiry about an angel.

“Yes, she is your angel, my boy. Watch her pay for all the nice clothes
you have on, out of her purse.”

Jakie watched her open her purse and handed several bills of paper
money to the clerk. She closed her purse and asked him:

“Little man where do you live?”

“I lives to Clear Creek, it’s a long, long, way. I walked some and
rided some.”

“How will you get home in the cold?”

“I is going back in a wagon I comed in, take me to where a picture
horse is in a window.”

Frances led him to the toy-counter to select a toy; she knew his
boy-heart wanted some happy plaything. How his eyes stared at a whole
counter of Christmas toys!

“Pick out what you want,” she said.

Jakie timidly hesitated.

“Pick out what you want,” she urged him.

Shyly he raised his hand, his heart fluttering in wildest joy, and
touched a toy-auto.

Frances caught it up and handed it to the clerk to wrap it up, but she
spied the wistful look in his face to carry it just as it was, in his
own hands. She reached and took the toy from the clerk and placed it in
his hands. He looked up into her face, hugging the auto tight, and said:

“Yes, you is a angel.”

Frances thought he was happy over his new clothes but the auto-toy,
all his own, was what his little heart wanted! His eyes danced, his
mouth broke into a radiant, joyous, laugh. Again he watched her open
her purse and take out her money and pay for his toy. She caught his
hand, the other hand hugged his auto-toy, and led him out of the store.
They passed through the revolving door into the crowded street. Jakie
jerked his hand away suddenly from hers and darted away in the crowd.
She stood still utterly astonished. He seemed so sweet and truthful it
amazed her for him to wildly snatch his hand out of hers, and dart away
from her. She watched him shove himself along in the crowd. She saw
him grab the dress-skirt in the back of an old country woman wearing
a faded, gingham dress, and a country sun-bonnet, with a faded shawl
pinned close up around her neck and shoulders. The woman wheeled
around astonished, at a little city boy rudely snatching her by her
dress-skirt, and holding a new toy in his hand. She did not recognize
her little Jakie.

“It’s me!” he exclaimed, laughing at her not knowing him in his new
clothes.

Then she grew very pale, almost fainted when she saw her little boy
in all the new clothes. She was hunting for a bare-foot, ragged child
on the streets. She had borrowed a neighbor’s horse and wagon to come
to town to hunt for him. She could think of nothing else but that her
little grandson had helped himself to the new toy and to all the new
things he wore. But Jakie was too happy, and too innocent, holding to
Mamsy’s dress-skirt pulling her along back to Frances, through the
crowd, to notice how scared and pale Mamsy was, and called out to
Frances:

“Here’s my Mamsy!”

Frances quickly held her hand out to Mamsy. She saw Mamsy was about to
faint. She hastily explained to her:

“I found your little Jakie, cold, lost and crying behind a door, on the
street. He was hunting for Santa Claus, and could not find him. So I
played Santa Claus to him, and gave him all he wears, and gave him the
toy-auto too.”

The color came back into Mamsy’s face, Frances handed to her the bundle
of Jakie’s old garments. Mamsy’s fears fled; joy and gratitude beamed
in her care-worn, wrinkled, face.

“God bless you! God bless you child!” holding Frances’ hand tight in
hers, she lifted it and bent over and touched her lips upon it in
gratitude. Then she explained:

“I’m old and we are poor but I loves him and keeps him. We got nothing
much way out in the backwoods. He wanted some Christmas so bad he come
off to hunt a Santa Claus he saw in a picture. I got nothin’ to ride
in, and it’s too far to walk. I borrowed a neighbor’s wagon and horse
to come hunt him. God took care of him and sent _you_ to him.” Mamsy’s
eyes filled with tears.

Jakie was listening and watching them. He broke in:

“Mamsy she say Jesus sent her to me, did He?”

“He sure did!” Mamsy answered. “You would a been frozen by now in this
cold wind. Jesus sure did send her to you, for your Christmas Santa
Claus!”

Mamsy was shivering, and Frances noticed how thin her shawl and her
dress were. Jakie’s upturned face was gazing at Frances. She leaned
over and whispered to him:

“Bring your Mamsy into the store and let us make her happy too. I want
to be her Christmas Santa Claus too.”

Jakie seized Mamsy’s dress-skirt again and began pulling toward the
revolving door, saying:

“Come on Mamsy! come on! She say she wants to be your Christmas Santa
Claus too.”

Dazed and reluctant, Mamsy allowed Jakie to pull her on. She was afraid
of the revolving door and held back. Frances stepped close beside her,
and placing her hand on her back gently shoved her forward, hurrying
through.

The beautiful decorations everywhere in the store, for Christmas, made
Mamsy feel it looked like heaven. She and Jakie followed Frances to
the elevator. They had never seen a box going up and down in the wall,
as Mamsy called it. It frightened them both. They clung to each other
afraid.

Frances led the way out to the cloak department. Frances picked out a
dark-blue, long, warm cloak for Mamsy. She insisted on Mamsy trying it
on. But Mamsy protested declaring:

“Honey, I’m nothing but an old country woman. Never worn a city cloak.
I always wears shawls.”

But Frances persuaded her to try it on. She stood before one mirror
looking at herself in the long pretty cloak. Jakie stood before
another mirror admiring himself, twisting and turning. He called out to
Mamsy:

“You don’t look like you, and me don’t look like me.”

Mamsy accepted the cloak, and Frances slipped to one side and paid the
clerk for it, happy that Mamsy had it to ride the long way back home in
the bitter cold.

Mamsy looked as changed as Jakie when they came down the elevator.
Frances knew they must be hungry, as it was long past their dinner
time. They came out of the store. Frances invited them to go to a lunch
counter and get a hot lunch. Mamsy said she must first see if the horse
was where she tied him. Frances went with them around the corner to the
side street where the horse stood tied to the hitching post, humped and
drawn up from the cold. Frances observed very carefully the horse and
wagon; she was planning some Christmas fun with it. They went to the
lunch counter farther down the street. Their happy faces wore a greater
change than they looked in their new clothes.

She saw them seated at the counter, and went to the cash-clerk, paid
for their lunch. She bade them good-bye, after she wrote on her card
their address.

“You is an angel,” Jakie insisted. He waved his hand to her until she
closed the door behind her.

She walked very fast, almost running in such a hurry to get back to the
wagon. She entered a grocery store close by. She picked out oranges,
apples, cakes, candies, pecans, raisins and bananas, for Jakie’s
Christmas. The clerk tied them in separate bags, then put all the bags
into a coarse crocker-sack, and tied it.

Frances spied a picture in the store of the same big, fat, old Santa
Claus. She begged for it, and wrote in big letters “Jakie which Santa
Claus do you like best?” The clerk pasted it on the bag, swung the
sack over his shoulder, and hurried out to the wagon; Frances saying,
“Hurry quick! hurry before they come back to the wagon.”

She paid for the things in the sack. She stood, then to examine
her pocket-book, to count what money she had left. Her purse was
empty,--just a few pennies left to buy Christmas love-gifts for her
home-folks and friends. Instead, all of her money had been spent on a
dear, ragged little orphan boy, hunting for Santa Claus. And upon a
dear old country woman to keep her warm.

Her face beamed, for her heart whispered to her that her money went
where it gave the greatest joys at Christmas time.

Yes, her purse was really empty,--no money left in it! But unspeakable
happiness whispered to her: Jesus’ own words:

“In as much as ye did it unto the least of these ye did it unto me!”

And his birthday is “love-day” of one toward another, all over the
world, and among all people and children where the Bible is loved.




JAKIE AT HOME


Jakie’s home in the backwoods, was close to Mr. Cripple Jim’s home.
Mr. Cripple Jim was a dear old man seventy years old, who looked for,
listened for, watched for, happy little Jakie’s bare-feet to come
tripping up the steps, knock on his door bringing the milk which Mamsy
sent to him every day.

Just before Christmas, Mr. Cripple Jim listened for, and watched for,
Jakie all day long--but Jakie never came! He never missed coming. Mr.
Cripple Jim really felt lonesome, for Jakie was full of fun. The sun
was getting low in the west. Night was coming on,--and yet no Jakie
came.

He heard noisy, stamping shoes coming up the steps--not Jakie’s nimble
bare-feet. But the knock was Jakie’s funny bim! bim! bim! on the door.

“Come in!” the dear old man called out.

The door pushed open. Jakie came in closing the door behind him to shut
off the cold winter wind. He stood still mischievously staring at him.
Mr. Cripple Jim did not recognize him. Jakie burst into a merry laugh
bouncing up and down.

“It’s me!”

“Sure didn’t know you!” exclaimed Mr. Cripple Jim, chuckling.

“You look like a city chap. Where you get such fine clothes?”

Jakie put the bucket of milk on the table, laughing gleefully, “Mr.
Cripple Jim you didn’t know me!” Jakie stood by his chair telling him:

“My billy goat was scared of me, he run off, he didn’t know me! The
chickens cackled and run from me,--they didn’t know me--nuthin knows
me!”

It was a great joke to Jakie to be turned into a city boy in
store-bought clothes, so nothing knew him. Mr. Cripple Jim laughed too.
He loved Jakie and Jakie loved him. He was constantly whittling with
his pen-knife, as he sat alone before his fire, some sort of toy a boy
likes. Jakie’s tongue rattled on like a victrola-record telling Mr.
Cripple Jim about all the wonderful things he saw in town and about the
beautiful girl who spent all of her Christmas money on him. He bent
over nearer to Mr. Cripple Jim’s chair with a great secret, whispering
into his ear:

“Mamsy say I kin hang up my stocking now, cause my Big Friend give me
all dese clothes.”

He rubbed his hands proudly over his clothes, “an she give us a big,
big, Santa Claus pack in a wagon. Mamsy say she won’t have to buy
nuthin for me in a l-o-n-g time. Mamsy say Jesus sent my Big Friend to
peep behind de door and find me a freezing.”

Then he laughed out loud telling of the picture of fat old Santa Claus,
that fooled him, pinned on top of the sack. “Us is rich now Mr. Cripple
Jim!”

Mr. Cripple Jim listened; his eyes fixed on Jakie’s happy, beaming
face. His mind and memory flew back over the years when his own happy
little children, his own boys and girls, hung up their stockings
Christmas Night around his fire-side. He could see their fun and frolic
diving their hands down into the mystery stockings Christmas morning.
Now he was an infirm, old man living all alone, using crutches to get
about. “All gone, singing the songs of heaven now, and he was just
waitin’ to go too,” he would say. He sat before the fire in a chair;
one crutch lying on the floor beside his chair, and the other crutch
lying on the floor on the other side of the chair.

Tears trickled down the old man’s wrinkled face. No one left to live
with him; none left to love him; none left for him to love. He was
dependent upon very kind neighbors to look after him. The men chopped
his wood for his fire. The women kindly cooked his food and brought
to him. Jakie was his cheer and his sunbeam. Jakie saw his tears, his
tender heart felt sorry for the lonely old man. He wanted to console
him. So he asked him what was uppermost in his own happy heart:

“Does you hang up your stocking?”

The dear old man shook his head, sadly:

“No little man. I’m too old now, and I got no little children to hang
up stockings to make fun and a noisy Christmas Morning.”

“No you ain’t too old to hang up your stocking. You ain’t old as fat
old Santa Claus, what fills up children’s stockings.”

Mr. Cripple Jim stared into the fire, without answering him, tears
still wet his cheeks. Jakie still pleaded:

“Jesus will send a big friend to you like he sent Her to me.” He ran to
the head of Mr. Cripple Jim’s bedstead. Laying his hand upon the bed
post at the head, said:

“Hang it up right here. Won’t you hang up your stocking Mr. Cripple Jim
like me, right here?” and he patted his hand on the post.

Mr. Cripple Jim brushed his tears off with his hand. He smiled back to
little Jakie whose kind heart was trying to make him forget, trying to
cheer a lonely crippled old man.

“All right,” he nodded, “I’ll hang up my stocking right there to please
you.”

“Won’t us have fun!” Jakie exclaimed coming back to the fire. “Suppose
Santa Claus forgets me. He ain’t a been coming here in a long time,”
Mr. Cripple Jim said to tease Jakie.

“Jesus won’t forgit you. I knows. He didn’t forgit me ’hind de door
freezing. He sent me all I got on.” And again he rubbed his hands
proudly over his new clothes.

Jakie was satisfied. He hurried out of the door. He looked back at Mr.
Cripple Jim to remind him before he shut it.

“Don’t you forgit it!”

Mr. Cripple Jim chuckled, “That child thinks I’m the age of him. To
please him I’ll hang up my stocking right now,--to keep from forgitin’
it,--cause old folks is powerful forgitful. I got no stocking to hang
up, no women here to wear em. My socks will do just the same.” He
lifted up his crutches, raised himself up on them. He hobbled to his
trunk. He rummaged inside until he found the new pair of socks Mamsy
had knitted for him. He hunted for a pin, he could not find a pin. He
hobbled back to his chair. He broke off a splinter from the wood, piled
beside his hearth. He sharpened it with his pocket knife and stuck it
through the upper edges of the socks, pinning them together. He hobbled
to the bed post. He straddled the socks across the bedboard like a
boy’s legs straddle a pony’s back.

“There!” he said, “I won’t forgit it now. God bless that child he is
made me forgit my troubles!”

Through the wind, Jakie raced back home. He rushed into the house,
panting:

“Mr. Cripple Jim say he will hang up his stocking like me!”

Mamsy was sitting by the fire very tired, waiting for Jakie. Jakie
pulled off his store-clothes for his old clothes. He drew his little
stool before the fire. He sat very still staring into the fire. Mamsy
sat very still staring into the fire too. The winter wind moaned and
whistled outside. Suddenly Jakie looked up into Mamsy’s face, his eyes
twinkling. Eagerly he exclaimed, “Mamsy me wants to give my billy goat
to my Big Friend cause she give us heaps of things.”

Mamsy felt inclined to laugh outright at the very idea of sending a
country-billy-goat to a city girl as a Christmas gift. Jakie was in
eager earnest. She kept her face straight lest she hurt his feelings.
She said, kindly:

“City folks got no where’s to keep a billy goat in town.”

[Illustration: GOD BLESS MY BIG FRIEND]

Jakie’s billy goat was the only thing of his very own which he
possessed. He loved billy. Billy was his only playmate. He was
willing to part with billy to his Big Friend who called him her Little
Friend, as a Christmas love-gift. He sighed keenly disappointed. Mamsy
proposed:

“Send her one of my turkeys. I saved it to buy some shoes for you. She
done give the shoes.”

“But Mamsy,” Jakie objected, “I wants to send her what’s mine.”

They both sat very still again. Jakie watching the bright little
fire-sparks fly up the chimney.

He called them fire-bugs because they resembled fire flies. He reached
over to the pile of wood by the hearth to fling a fresh stick of fat
pine into the fire, and make it blaze brightly.

“Oh Mamsy!” he exclaimed, seizing hold of another stick, “I ken send
her some fat, lightwood splinters to start her fire. Mr. Lane hauls it
to town to sell to folks. They pays him heaps of money for it.”

Mamsy was pleased. Quickly she agreed:

“You send the splinters and I send the turkey.” Jakie was satisfied. He
wanted to rush out in the dark to the woodpile to hunt for a fat stick.
Mamsy persuaded him to wait until to-morrow. He was sleepy and shed off
his everyday clothes for his “nightie” and knelt down at Mamsy’s knee
to say his evening prayers. He folded his hands together and bowed his
head. His sweet voice said aloud: “God bless my Mamsy, God bless me and
make me a good little boy, so I will go to my Mama in heaven. God bless
my Big Friend, for Jesus’ sake amen.”

He raised his head. He stared up at Mamsy astonished. Tears were
trickling down her cheeks. He could not understand! He was so happy and
Mamsy was crying. Mamsy saw the troubled look in his face. She laid her
hand upon his head and explained:

“The Lord is been good to us today. This morning we was so po, you run
off to town a-huntin’ for Santa Claus to give you a present, cause
we was too po fur you to hang up your stocking. The foxes eat up my
young turkeys; the hawks caught my little chickens. I had nuthin to
sell to git money to buy us things. The Lord is changed it all. He sent
that fine, good, city girl when you was lost to find you, like He sent
Angels outen the heavens to sing to the shepherds that night, feeding
their sheep; that a wee baby had come named Jesus, to show us how to
love each other. He come po like us, cause so many po-folks is in the
world. He knows how po-folks lives and po-folks feels without money, to
buy clothes and nice things.

“You is little and Mamsy is old. He will always take care of you. He
will make you a good little boy and make folks love you like he did
today.” She pointed to her Bible, lying on the pine-table, which she
read every day saying; “It’s all in there--when you gets bigger you
will read it for yourself.”

Jakie stood up and ran and jumped into bed, in the very place he had
sneaked from under the cover that morning when the roosters were
crowing for the dawn of the day. He lay still as he was very tired and
fell asleep.

Early next morning he hopped out of bed. He stuck his feet into his
overalls in a great hurry, and clapped his cap on his head. He ran
eagerly out to the woodpile to hunt for the fattest lightwood stick he
could find. He grabbed hold of the stick; fattest he could find. He
dragged it on the ground, pulling it, puffing and grunting, panting
and blowing to the steps. He called Mamsy to help him get it up the
steps. She came to help him. She brought her ax and chopped the big
stick into smaller sticks. Jakie gathered them up in his arms and
carried them inside, by the fire. He placed his little stool close to
the fire-place. Mamsy lent her hatchet to him. He sat on the stool and
split the sticks into fine splinters.

[Illustration: HE SPLIT THE STICKS INTO FINE SPLINTERS]

Mamsy tied them in small bundles. Then tied a stout string around the
small bundles into one large bundle. Together he and Mamsy caught
the fat turkey and bagged it, with its head peeping out, in the same
coarse sack they found full of Christmas gifts. Frances had tucked
her card into the sack bearing her street, her name, and her number.
“My po writin’ might git it lost!” said Mamsy, so she sewed the card
on the sack “to make sure,” their Christmas gift would get to the
beautiful, loving, kind city girl who had scattered such happy joys,
into their hearts.

A kind neighbor hauling chickens and turkeys to town to sell, carried
them into the City to leave on the front porch; Christmas gifts of
love--the only thing they had to give. Jakie watched the neighbor’s
wagon roll away toward town, wondering what his Big Friend would say
when she got their Christmas gifts. He was so happy he wanted to make
other people happy.

He ran into the house to Mamsy begging her:

“Mamsy Mr. Cripple Jim is so lonesome he cried! Let me go fill his
stocking. Dress me up like fat old Santa Claus. You go with me, and I
ken sneak into the house and put things in his stocking, and he will
think I is sure ’nough old Santa Claus. Fix me so he won’t know me.”
Mamsy promised.




CHRISTMAS EVE


The chickens had gone to roost. Billy was in his pen. The cow and calf
in their shed for the night. Jakie was wildly excited, he said:

“Mamsy, dress me up now like fat old Santa Claus. Make me stick out
jess like him. Put long white hair on me; put long white beard on me
too. I want to fool Mr. Cripple Jim.”

Mamsy got her shawl and with a needle and thread tacked the shawl all
around him until he looked like “a rolly-polly,” or a brownie. She
stirred flour and water together into paste. She smeared the paste on
his chin and cheeks and stuck snowy white cotton to it for his beard.
She pinned cotton in his cap, for white hair. He was ready to go. He
got a switch to stick in Mr. Cripple Jim’s stocking, because Mamsy
stuck a switch in his stocking once to make him laugh. He wanted to
make Mr. Cripple Jim laugh. He coiled the switch and stuck it into the
meal sack Mamsy gave him for a pack on his back. She dropped oranges,
apples, candy and raisins in the pack. Also put into it a cake of fresh
butter, a can of coffee, and a new pair of woolen socks, she knitted to
give to him. Jakie danced up and down, watching her.

Mamsy baked a pan of nice corn bread and buttered it hot; and drew a
pot of hot coffee to take Mr. Cripple Jim a hot supper. While he ate
it Jakie could slip in and fill his stocking. She put the supper in a
split basket. She lifted the sack upon her own shoulder to carry to Mr.
Cripple Jim’s door for Jakie; it was too heavy for him. The basket of
supper she carried on her arm. Jakie was so bundled up he waddled in
the path behind Mamsy like a fat baby. They reached the house. Mamsy
lifted Jakie’s pack off of her shoulder, and put it on Jakie’s back.
She knocked on the door.

[Illustration: CAUTIOUSLY JAKIE PUSHED OPEN THE DOOR]

“Come in,” the lonely old man called out.

Mamsy went in. Jakie hid in the dark outside listening and peeping
through a crack in the door.

Mr. Cripple Jim looked expecting Jakie to come in behind Mamsy. He was
disappointed. Jakie heard him ask Mamsy:

“Where’s the boy!”

Jakie’s heart beat faster, breathless he waited for Mamsy’s answer. She
always told the truth. He wondered if she would tell on him and spoil
all of his fun. But she said evasively:

“He’s about somewheres, up to a boy’s capers.”

Quickly she set the coffee-pot on the hot coals of the fire to heat it.
She placed the buttered bread on the table beside him. Jakie eagerly
watched her hurry and get a cup and pour the coffee into the cup and
set it on the table. Mr. Cripple Jim edged himself around to eat the
hot supper--with his back to the door. This was what Mamsy wanted, so
he would not see Jakie when he sneaked in. Jakie started inside and
jumped back. Mr. Cripple Jim turned his face around toward the bed,
pointing his finger toward his stocking: “See I hung up my stocking to
please the boy.”

He turned back to eat. He insisted upon Mamsy’s sitting down in a
chair. She refused. She stood exactly between him and the door. He was
busy eating. Mamsy stuck her hand behind her and beckoned Jakie to
sneak in. She talked loud and fast to the aged man so he could not hear
Jakie slip in.

Very slowly and cautiously Jakie pushed open the door, and slipped
inside, closing the door behind him. He tiptoed to the head of the
bed as softly as a little mouse. He nearly burst into a laugh, aloud,
when he saw Mr. Cripple Jim’s socks astride the head-board. He set his
pack down on the floor. He rummaged in his pack and got an apple and
squeezed it into the sock; he squeezed an orange into the other sock.
He put candy, and raisins into the socks; he stuck the switch straight
up in a sock, and giggled over how it would make Mr. Cripple Jim laugh.

He set a toy dump-wagon on top of the socks. He hung his pack on the
bed post. He crept noiselessly back to the door, slipped through, and
jumped off the step into the dark. Mamsy glanced sideways. She saw the
switch. Jakie had slipped out. She must hurry away. He was outside
waiting in the dark, in the cold. She wished the lonely man a happy
Christmas. He looked up at her, his face very happy. He had not been
forgotten Christmas eve. Jakie had told him Jesus would not forget him.
He gazed into the fire-light until it went out. He hobbled to his bed
by the dim glow of the coals. He forgot about his stocking wondering
where Jakie was, and dropped to sleep.

Silently Jakie and Mamsy stole away from the house. Jakie trudged close
behind Mamsy in the foot-path homeward, the stars over-head lighting
their steps. Jakie gazed upward at the vast number of twinkling stars
in the sky. He asked Mamsy: “Is de stars little holes up yonder what
heaven shines through and my papa and my mama can peep through down at
me?”

“No,” answered Mamsy, “stars is to tell us about God. You know about
the Star which showed the wise men where Jesus was. The stars is to
show us every night where He is now. The wise men came a long way from
the east to bring gifts to the po baby what come out of Heaven to teach
us love,--teach us the sort of love that pretty girl in town showed you
and me. She spent her own money to make us happy Christmas. She said He
sent her to find you. He whispers to our hearts, inside, to ‘be ye kind
one to another.’”

“Did He tell me to send my Big Friend a Christmas gift? an’ tell you to
send de turkey?”

“Yes,” answered Mamsy, “so we won’t be gettin’ everything from
folks--and give nuthin’.”

They reached their home steps. Jakie blustered up the steps ahead of
Mamsy. He shoved open the door. He ran to the fire-place to warm.
Mamsy had piled hot ashes over the wood to smother the blaze. Jakie
snatched the cotton beard from his chin, while Mamsy stirred up the
fire. Jakie snapped the threads tacking the shawl and it fell to the
floor. He jumped up and down clapping his hands, saying:

“I got head of fat old Santa Claus! I filled up Mr. Cripple Jim’s
stocking my own self--and he didn’t know it.”

Mamsy gave him one of her new stockings to hang up. He chose the
nail by the fire-place closest to his side of the bed, so he could
see it the very first thing in the morning. He said his prayers and
jumped into bed. He tucked his head under the cover,--and fell asleep
Christmas eve as all happy children do, wishing to wake up soon
Christmas morning; with stockings full, or Christmas trees!




CHRISTMAS MORNING


Church bells ring out their glad-tidings over the world that Jesus
came as a little child with His love-gift of Himself to all the earth.
To teach us how to love and how to live; how to love and how to give!
Wise men of the east followed the Star of Bethlehem to find Him. They
brought rich gifts unto Him.

Christmas bells ring out their chimes glory to God in the Highest,
peace on earth good will to men. Christmas trees glitter in twinkling
lights, hanging full of love-gifts to rich and to poor. Children jump
out of bed to dive their hands into Christmas stockings. Fire-works
shoot upward. Love-gifts are exchanged all over the world for He
teaches us the greatest thing in all the world is love! His love makes
us sweet and makes us glad; makes us happy and makes us kind.

The dawn of the day shed its gloaming in the east. Jakie’s eyes opened.
The room was dark. He pulled himself slowly from under the cover--not
to awaken Mamsy. He edged himself from the bed until his feet touched
the bare floor. He stretched his hands out before him and felt his way
to his stocking. His hands touched his stocking. He eagerly felt it
up and down, it stuck out stuffed full as a sausage. The stocking-toe
touched something big and curious. He felt it with both hands. It had
wheels. His heart beat faster. It had a tongue. It was a boy’s express
wagon. He was astonished. He had wanted one all of his life. He felt
inside of it. Something mysterious was inside. He lifted it up. A dim
light came through the window, he examined the something; it was a new
harness for his billy goat. His heart leaped for joy. He stepped to the
other side of the hearth to see what Santa Claus brought to Mamsy. No
stocking was hanging up. There was nothing! “Not a thing for Mamsy!”
he said to himself, “That old Santa Claus is fooled Mamsy same as
he fooled me!” A happy idea came to him. He would play Santa Claus
to Mamsy too. He crept to the bed on his all-fours and stole one of
Mamsy’s stockings out of her shoe. He crept back to the fire-place.
He hung the stocking up on a nail across the hearth from his own.
Cautiously he lifted his stocking down from the nail, and went back to
Mamsy’s stocking. He pulled things out of his own stocking. He dropped
them into Mamsy’s stocking until it had as much in it as he had left
in his stocking. He carried his stocking back and hung it on the nail.
He was cold and shivering. He crept back to bed. He crawled into bed,
and snuggled up to Mamsy to get warm. But he could not wait! He put his
mouth close to Mamsy’s ear. He whispered:

“Mamsy! Mamsy! Santa Claus is come--sure ’nouf.”

Mamsy opened her eyes.

“Christmas gift!” he blurted out. Mamsy thrust her hand down from the
edge of the bed to feel for her shoes and stockings. She always stuffed
each stocking into each shoe by her bedside ready to wear next morning.

Jakie lay watching her. She said, “I sure am getting old and forgitful.
I was sure I stuffed my stocking in my shoe; now I can’t find it.”

Jakie stuck his head under the cover, to giggle. She got out of bed.
She felt along the floor. The stocking was not there. She hopped on the
cold floor, one shoe on and one foot bare, to the fire-place, to stir
up the fire. She saw her missing stocking hanging on a nail, half-full.

She saw Jakie’s stocking half empty. Jakie was peeping at her from
under the cover.

He saw Mamsy take it down and press it against her cheek. He ducked his
head back under the cover-lid, grinning, saying: “Mamsy don’t know I is
her Santa Claus too.”

Over at Mr. Cripple Jim’s house he was laughing aloud. He awoke and
saw the long switch sticking up over his head. “Hah,” he said, “Old
Santa has brought me a switch to warn me to be good! How did he come
right over my head without my knowing it!” He raised up in bed. He
pulled the socks down beside him. He reached for the pack hanging on
his bed post. He poured out all the contents on his bed. He looked at
the pile of good things. He wagged his head. His face was radiantly
happy. He said: “A happy child made me, an old cripple man, hang up
my stocking. He said Jesus won’t forgit me--he told the truth. Jesus
didn’t forgit me!”

He heard such noisy, jolting, bumping, in his yard. He seized his
crutches leaning against the foot of his bed. He hobbled to the
door. He opened the door. He peeped out. It was Jakie sitting in his
Christmas wagon driving billy harnessed up in the new harness. He
yelled out to Jakie “Christmas gift.”

Jakie waved his cap. “I come to cetch you first--and you is cetched me
first.” The happy little boy tied billy to the hitching post. He ran
into the house to see the happy old man.

Frances had emptied her purse of all of her Christmas money,--but she
had wafted Christmas joys to the dear country folk in the backwoods.
And a beautiful note came through the mail from her to Jakie and to
Mamsy for their love-gifts to her “of lightwood and a turkey.”


_The End_




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Perceived typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JAKIE'S CHRISTMAS ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

